one of the first principles we need to
understand the whole golf road is the
effect of tire pressures on the terrain
over which we drive and the vehicles
performance firstly a tire is very very
hard will tend to penetrate through a
tire that is soft will tend to float now
for sound driving such as this morning
the sand is actually quite wet so it's
got a lot of buoyancy the vehicle even
with fairly hard tires does not sink in
but the moment the sand gets soft a hard
tire will penetrate through making
driving difficult so the first question
is what surface are we driving over and
how will our tires penetrate if they're
going to penetrate a lot and reduce the
power pool absorb the power from the
vehicle then we're going to need to
lower our tire pressures now we're gonna
get sand driving today and the first
thing we're going to do is look at the
condition of the sand and here the sand
in some places is quite compact but
where it's soft we're going to battle so
we're going to drop the tyre pressures
our first port of call is one bar we can
go lower or we could go higher but it's
a good starting point so I suggest that
one bar is where we are going to start
today so to do that we need a tire
pressure gauge okay it's the first thing
you're gonna buy at any off-road 4x4
shop you get a bar tire pressure gauge
it's the first thing you're gonna need
one bar good starting points
we recommend that for saying driving
that you shouldn't it shouldn't deflate
to lower than about 1 bar 100 kPa the
reason for this is twofold you firstly
don't want any sand being caught between
the room and the tire itself which will
cause you a TV and also you have the
risk of the tire slipping on the rim
which could cause its own damage and we
actually DC deflate or DC to completely
off the rim
now that the tires are at lower
pressures the vehicle will float over
the ground and the tires will provide
more proof in doing so they become
vulnerable to damage and ground
clearance is reduced the driving style
therefore must not be too aggressive
rock and stone we would recommend
nothing more than about a 15% drop in
the inflation pressure from your
recommended the risk either with let
these actual sidewall bulges slightly
higher and you could be prone to
damaging assignment the positive means
that you have a much softer ride because
the tire connect as a bit of shock
absorber that's life
and Fletcher
this also helps the tires not slip off
rock faces and expose themselves to
damage
most locals nowadays come up with a
highway terrain type tire and these
tires are designed for the every
creation Lomenzo
and perform off-road quite well except
if you're going on a very long journey
into the bush we would recommend the
all-terrain tire tire which will give
you those on-road capabilities as well
as the off road bridge town has recently
launched the runner up to the d69 3
which is the d6 mine 480 this is the
tire and some of the features that the
d6 mine for has starting at the bottom
at the rim area is a recess recess trim
line which obviously protects your room
from any damage and also if you are
mainly climbing a pavement you will not
get those nasty little Nick's and
scratches on the room further up in the
sidewall we can see in this area yeah
the tires been reinforced to ensure that
the penetration resistance is improved
because this area tends to suffer quite
badly from cuts and penetrations
furthermore in the tread area the bottom
of the tread has also been thickened to
ensure that you have the maximum cut
resistant capabilities and the other
factors that have been designing to this
chin or water dispersion attraction and
also a reduced noise levels these tires
are for the type of user that will use
these vehicle predominantly on-road but
occasionally still have quite severe
off-road usage and would want to go
anywhere highway terrain tire
sometimes called HT a better suited to
their calls used predominantly on road
because of their better high speed
braking performance lower noise wet road
safety and a longer time